# primertool README
This readme contains information about the primertool package and should make it easier for Developers to understand
the structure and the functionality of the package. 

## Structure
- `config.py` contains the configuration of the package (currently used for the user's kuerzel).
- `exceptions.py` contains the exceptions used by the primertool package.

### primertool.py
main file of the package. Manages the user input, the generation of the primers and the output of the results
```
primertool.py
└── Primertool
    ├── PrimerMutation
    ├── PrimerExon
    ├── PrimerGen
    └── PrimerGenomicPosition
```

### primer.py
contains the Primer class. Used to store the information of a primer.
```
primer.py
├── Primer
│   ├── ExonPrimer
│   ├── GenomicPrimer
│   └── PoseditPrimer
└── PrimerPair
```

### functions.py
contains static functions used by the primertool package.

- `query_database(config, query)`
- `parse_mutation(mutation)`
- `split_nm(nm_number)`
- `find_sequence_positions(exon_starts, exon_ends, exon_count, strand, mutation_position)`
- `calculate_targets(target_start, target_end, primer_bases)`
- `get_snps(chromosome, seq_start, seq_end, uscsc_config)`
- `mask_snps(genome, chromosome, seq_start, seq_end, ucsc_config)`
- `primer_output_exon(genname, nm_number, primer, strand, exon_number, index)`
- `primer_output_posedit(genname, nm_number, primer, strand, posedit, index)`
- `primer_output_genomic(primer, chromosome, start, end, index)`
- `write_output_file(outfile, primer_strings)`
- `mutalyzer_error_handler(response)`

## Functionality
The primertool can only directly generate primers for PrimerExon and PrimerGenomicPosition. 
The primers for PrimerGen are generated by converting to PrimerExon and then generating the primers for PrimerExon.
The primers for PrimerMutation are generated by converting to either PrimerExon or PrimerGenomicPosition and then generating the primers for the converted primer.
